Welcome, in this video, I'm going to show you how to install P4Merge for Windows.
I'm going to go to my browser, which is Google Chrome. Once Chrome is open, I'm going to go to "perforce.com".
And on the current version of their website, as of the recording of this video, I'm going to go to the "DOWNLOADS" tab and click on "Downloads".
Then, once on the downloads page, I'm going to scroll down until I find the "P4MERGE: VISUAL MERGE TOOL".
I'm going to confirm that it's selected on Windows. And in the middle dropdown, I need to choose 64 or 32 bit version of the Windows installer.
Since I'm running the 64 bit version of Windows, I'm going to select the 64 bit version. The latest version is automatically selected,
so all I have to do now is click on the download button. Before I get to download the installer file I'm prompted for registration.
However; I am given the option to skip registration, which is what I am going to do.
Great. Now the P4Merge installer begins to download. Once the installer has finished downloading,
I'm going to open up, and click on open to run the installer in place.
Windows will prompt me to make sure that I want to actually install this software. I'm going to say "Yes", and that begins the installation wizard.
Great, on the first page of the installer, the select your features page, I'm going to de-select all items,
except for the third item, which is "Visual Merge Tool". So to do that, I'm going to click on this icon, which represents a hard drive,
and I'm going to select the x option, which means don't install it. I'm doing that for the visual client, as well as the admin tools,
and the command line client. So all that remains that we'll be installing is the "Visual Merge Tool", or P4Merge.
Once these selections have been made, click on "Next". This is just a last chance screen before we actually do the installation.
I'm good to go at this point, so I'm going to click on "Start". Great. We've completed the installation of P4Merge, so now click "Finish" .
We're going to configure P4Merge to be accessible from any command prompt.
First of all, let's test out to make sure that P4Merge is accessible or not.
Now this process will work with either Git Bash, PowerShell, or even the Windows command prompt.
So go to Git Bash, for example; that launches Git Bash.
The command for P4Merge is simply p4merge. If I type "p4merge", then press enter,
bash tells me that p4merge is not a known command. That means that P4Merge is not accessible from the command environments.
Well, let's exit out for now, and let's find out where P4Merge actually is. So we can normally find P4Merge by going to the start menu,
all applications, if we scroll down to the Perforce folder, we should have an item "P4Merge".
Great, so selecting it launches P4Merge. We're not going to actually compare any files at this point,
but I just want to make sure that the P4Merge application would load. So I'm going to cancel.
And now that we've confirmed that, we know that P4Merge is installed correctly. So let's add it to our system path,
so it can be accessible from anywhere we launch P4Merge. Let's open up file explorer.
Now file explorer may actually be named Windows explorer in previous versions of Windows. I'm going to go to my c-drive,
Then I'm going to look under "Program Files"; this is the default location for 64 bit applications on a 64 bit version of Windows.
I see under program files, that I have a folder named Perforce. I'm going to go into that. And under that Perforce folder,
I have the "p4merge" application. So all we need is the path to this folder. So I'm going up to the address bar;
by clicking on it, I get the normalized path to this folder. So now either control+c, or right click and copy.
Then, while in file explorer, we're going to right click on "This PC", then go to "Properties".
That will launch the "System" window within the control panel. Once that loads, go to "Advanced System Settings";
that will launch the "System Properties" on the "Advanced" tab. At the bottom of that tab is "Environment Variables...", click on that button.
That will launch the "Environment Variables" dialogue. We need to find the system variable of path.
Great. Once you've located it, you can either double click the variable entry, or click on the "Edit..." button.
Now, within the "Variable value:", click on the field, and then go to the end of this value.
At the end of the value for the "Variable value:", if the path to Perforce is not there, add it, by starting with a semicolon,
semicolon is how we separate our path values, then control+v or paste in the value that we copied prior.
That will paste in the path to our Perforce folder. Then click "OK" to set the value.
After that, click "OK" to close our "Environment Variables" dialogue. Click "OK" again to close the "System Properties".
Now we should be able to close the "System" window and file explorer. Alright, let's try that again; we're going to go to Git Bash
Like I've said before, this step will work equally as well with PowerShell or the Windows command prompt.
Once your command environment loads, type "p4merge" then press enter. If you come up with this screen, it means that P4merge has loaded.
Now that we've confirmed that, let's cancel, and let's exit out of our command environment.